--- 
title: Why I am a DataMapper convert (it makes BDD happy)
layout: post
---
There's lots of buzz around [DataMapper](http://datamapper.org/) right now, especially among the #merb crowd.  I haven't had any major issues with ActiveRecord, so I haven't needed to look at a new ORM...but I like to play with new things, so last night I really gave the DM a try.

I'm a complete convert, if for no other reason that the awesome way automigrations play along with BDD.

First, tell your spec_helper to use automigrations:

{% highlight ruby %}
DataMapper::Base.auto_migrate!
{% endhighlight %}

This *will cause your database tables to be dropped and re-created* so use with caution. 

Next, let's spec some behavior:

{% highlight ruby %}
it "should have a username field" do
  @person.username = "jjames"
  @person.username.should == "jjames"
end
{% endhighlight %}

And see what autotest says:

{% highlight text %}
....F.....

1)
NoMethodError in 'Person should have a username field'
undefined method `username=' for #<Person:0x13f720c>
./spec/models/person_spec.rb:38:

Finished in 0.049775 seconds

10 examples, 1 failure
{% endhighlight %}

Cool, that's what we expected.  Now, with ActiveRecord, to get to green, we'd need to create a migration and run it.  With DataMapper, we stay in our model:

{% highlight ruby %}
class Person < DataMapper::Base
  property :username, :string
end
{% endhighlight %}

And autotest says...

{% highlight text %}
..........

Finished in 0.040584 seconds

10 examples, 0 failures
{% endhighlight %}

Now, is this perfect?  Not yet.  DM has a good amount of work still.  There's some smart folks working on it, and I bet it will be pretty sweet in a few more weeks.

But, man...that's just awesome.
