--- 
title: "Twitpay: An Atlanta Startup Weekend 2 Company"
layout: post
---
So, what did you do this weekend? Really? That's cool. Oh, me? Yeah, I <a href="http://twitpay.me">built a company</a>.

From Friday through Sunday I was a part of <a href="http://atlanta2.startupweekend.com">Atlanta Startup Weekend 2</a>. There were 100 or so people, maybe 20 pitches, 10 or 11 teams formed, and 6 projects that survived to Sunday. My team was absolutely awesome. We gelled in a way I've never really seen happen in person, and just Got Stuff Done.

Our company is <a href="http://twitpay.me">Twitpay</a>: payments in 140 characters or less. We went from an idea (thanks for the help with that @sanjay), a Twitter account (thanks to @cyu) and a domain (thanks to @amdev) to something that is useful, fun, and actually works.

Friday night we talked about the idea, and brainstormed a little bit. Saturday we built the app. We had a functioning (fake money) beta by Saturday night when we went home around 9pm. Sunday we worked on the UI, marketing, our pitch, and getting payments via PayPal working.  We officially launched Sunday around 6, right before it was time to present.

I'm sitting in a Panera in Montgomery right now on the way home to Alabama. I just deployed some bugfixes and a FAQ update. Sometime today we should have all the PayPal stuff hooked up so you can fund your Twitpay accounts. I still can't believe how much we got done.

I really hope you like it, and I really hope you find a Startup Weekend near you and participate.  Making things is fun.

Huge thanks to <a href="http://twitpay.me/s/about">the Twitpay team</a> for a great weekend, and here's to an exciting future!

PS: <a href="http://twitter.com/home?status=@ivey+twitpay+$1.00+because+twitpay+is+awesome">it's this easy to send people money</a>
