--- 
title: Engine Yard
layout: post
---
"As I mentioned on Twitter":http://twitter.com/ivey/statuses/792179131, Friday was my last day at
"Engine Yard":http://engineyard.com.  Since several people have asked, I wanted to say a little bit about why I decided to leave and about what's next.

First off, I can't say enough times how much EY rocks.  They're an awesome company to work with (I've been a customer) and an awesome company to work for.  I had a great time working with some very talented people.

What it really came down to was time.  I used to laugh when political figures would resign to "spend more time with their family," but that's basically what happened for me.  I realized that the most valuable thing I have in my business life is the flexibility to wrap it around my family life, not just after dinner or over lunch, but all day.  As a fulltime employee, I couldn't take off the afternoon because Ellie was feeling cranky and needed extra attention, or because she was being silly and I wanted to spend a few hours being charmed.  It wouldn't be fair to my co-workers, or the customers.  Being self-employed gives me control over my time and how I assign it to projects, and I *really* missed having that control.

What's next?  I'm back to consulting with "Ivey & Brown":http://iveyandbrown.com (that website is sorely in need of a makeover).  If you need some contract Merb or Rails development or Scrum training, give us a call.  I'm working on some internal projects in May (see website above) and will have serious time for client work June 1.

A couple of people asked me, "Aren't you scared, not knowing where your paycheck will come from?" and the answer is, "Yes!"  Sometimes being self-employed is a real nail-biter.  It takes a fair amount of -ego- self-confidence and a willingness to take risks.  For me, the risks are worth it, but it's definitely not for everyone.

Yes, I'm still involved with "Merb":http://merbivore.com and hope to actually be *more* involved in the coming weeks.  I'll have more time to focus on getting 1.0 ready, and on the Merb book I'm co-authoring for Manning.  I think my editor will be happy about that aspect of my flexibility, for sure!

Thanks to everyone at Engine Yard for being awesome.  It was a blast, and I can't wait to have some new apps for you to manage.
