--- 
title: The last of the Merb 0.5.x line
layout: post
---
Just a few minutes ago I tagged and released Merb 0.5.3 "Inexperienced With Girls", and it should be on the gem servers soon.  This is (hopefully) the last of the 0.5.x releases of Merb.  It's the last unless something horrible is wrong with it.

Starting .... *now* .... we're really focusing on the 0.9 code, which has some significant changes in terms of process.  First and foremost, we're using "git":http://git.or.cz/ to manage the development, instead of Subversion.  Also, we're splitting the codebase up into merb-core and merb-more, to balance that delicate line of "super small and focused yet feature-rich".

If you'd like to see where things are headed, here's the repos on GitHub:

* "merb-core":http://github.com/wycats/merb-core/tree/master
* "merb-more":http://github.com/wycats/merb-more/tree/master
* my "experimental merb-core":http://github.com/ivey/merb-core/tree/master

One of the super cool things about GitHub is that it makes hosting a fork of a project trivial.  One of the super cool things about git is that it makes cherry-picking changesets from one tree to another really easy.  Combine those two things, and you get a *completely* different development style than with central-repo projects.

Right now, my experimental merb-core is the same as upstream, but I'll be doing stuff in there that may or may not be ready for official merb.  I'll let you know if there's anything interesting in there.

The release of 0.9 is planned for February 8th, IIRC.  There's a lot to do, but we've made a lot of progress.  My next task is to make sure the "preliminary 0.9 upgrade checklist":http://pastie.caboo.se/144566 that wycats made is all that's needed (it can't be *that easy*, can it?) and then go through merb-core and make sure all the HTTP compliance and support is good.
